# Introduction 

## Topics
1. What is InfoVis 
2. History & current disciplines 
3. Organization of the course 

## Origin of visualization 
-Numeric System: **Number** is count of objects 

    - Prehistoric era: Tally lines [ only useful for small numbers]
    - Babylonian: base 60. two symbols(for 1 and 10)
    - Egyptian: base  10, aware of large number, fraction(symbol for common fractions)
    - Hindu-Arabic: (current)
        Why its good for visual representation
            - mathematical convenience, 
            - arithmetic operation simplified
            - arbitrary precision, 
            - positional notation. 
            - distinct digits 

**Zero:** Nothingness and a number invented by Indian Mathematicians. 

    - tables: middle ages (5th to 15th)
    - Charts: 1750

## Data types: Large number of data 
    - 7 basic types:   
        - 1, 2, 3 dimensional 
        - multidimensional 
        - Temporal 
        - Trees 
        - Networks  
    - Modern era: 
        - Geospatial  
        - Multimedia - text, audio, video, audio 

## Variable Type: 
    - Qualitative: 
        - categorical/nominal (names, labels), categorize in groups and categories 
        - Ordinal: rank ordering, can be represent by integers  
    - Quantitative:
        - Interval (also ordinal): the difference between two values are meaningful. 
        - Ratio: true zero, ratios between arbitrary values are meaningful. 
        Note: Interval vs Ratio - [0ºC ≠ mean absent of heat (Interval), 0ºK means absent of heat (ratio )  ]

## What is Information Visualization: 
    - Goal: design a `Visual Representation` of data that enables or facilitates useful understanding. 
    - Math-style: mapping between data and visual representation. 
    - Communication of abstract data through the use of interactive visual interface. 
    - InfoVis utilizes computer graphics and interactions to assist human in solving problems 
    - Teh study of visual representation of abstract data to reinforce human cognition. 
    - The use of computer-supported, interactive, visual representation of abstract data to amplify cognition. 

## Visual representation 
rick toolkit, no tool is universal, Good practices exists 

## Modern InfoVis Discipline 
- ### Information Visualization 
     Building blocks of analytics dashboards  
    - #### Business Graphics 
        - ##### table: best practices 
            - vertical liens: not useful (unless group attributes)
            - Horizontal lines: 3 (2 for header, 1 for bottom).(extra line to group rows)
            - Alignment: 
                - text: left- align 
                - numbers: right aligned 
            -  Decimal precision: (3 digit)
            - round up to useful to the purpose 
        - ##### Chart: 
            - Label mandatory: title, legend  
            - y-axis: 
                - always start from zero 
                - avoid double y-axis 
                - change aspect ratio for better visualization 
        - ##### Pie Charts: 
            - ask why not bar, Humans are better comparing lengths than areas)
        - right chart for right data: 
        - line graph: variable develops over time
        - bar chart: comparing relative differences between few items 
        - table: calender view 
    - ### Information Design 
        story to tell with supported data 
        - Info graphics, animation 
        - Clear point 
        - avoid flashiness 
        - clear flow 
        - don't overwhelm reade4er 
        - avoid bias
- ### Visual Analytics 
    - ### Multimedia Analytics 
        Data -> visualization <-> Model <-> Knowledge 
        Analytical reasoning and interactive design 
        domain expert want to solve a problem 
        system to analyze  the data iteratively and interactively 
            - Iteratively: time and gradual approach to grapple with data 
            - Interactively: expert ha to perform many sub tasks to process the data    
- ### Scientific Visualization 
    Models (3d), scientific data 

## Disciplines by data scale: 
- Business Graphics (10) -> Information design (100) -> InfoVis(1k) -> Visual Analytics (1M)
## Information Visualization vs Visual Analytics 
1. InfoVis `focuses` on individual visual representation, 
2. Visual Analytics looks into the bigger question 
    i. improved flow to analytics process itself 
    ii. innovative representation with existing representation.   